# Time-Series-Modelling-and-Forecasting-of-Monthly-Temperature-Data-for-Western-Kenya-Using-SARIMA
Climate change marked by global warming has occurred. Earth’s average temperature has gradually increased in the last decades.This has adversely affected farming patterns in Kenya where 60% of households depend on Agriculture for their livelihoods. Time series analysis and forecasting is a versatile and efficient tool with diverse applications, its numerous applications in meteorology and other environmental areas has helped in the understanding of phenomena like rainfall, humidity, temperature, drought etc. To help address this problem, this research project has modelled seasonality of both the average monthly minimum and maximum temperature recordings over a thirty-year period in two agricultural intensiveregions in Kenya. Time series SARIMA models were built to help analyse and forecast the maximum and minimum temperature of Kakamega and Eldoret stations. Appropriate orders of the SARIMA models were picked after evaluation of results from ACF and PACF plots and the AIC criterion. The best forecasting SARIMA models in Kakamega Station were SARIMA(2,0,0)(0,1,1)12 for the minimum temperature and SARIMA(1,0,0)(0,1,1)12 for maximum temperature while for Eldoret Station SARIMA(1,0,1)(0,1,1)12 for the minimum temperature and SARIMA(1,0,0)(0,1,1)12 for maximum temperature were selected. The results indicate that the minimum temperature is gradually increasing over the years supporting the fact that indeed global warming is happening.
